Module Title: Stock Market Trading Activity

Overview: STOCK MARKET for 2 to 8 players

OBJECTIVE: To accumulate capital by skillfully buying and selling shares of stock at continually changing prices.

##Concept Explanations:
PLAYING THE MARKET: At his turn to throw the dice, the player places his playing piece on any one of the four squares at the center of each side of the board where the word START is found. He does not pay a fee to start. He throws the dice and moves his playing piece the number of squares in the direction indicated. (START squares have two arrows, one for odd numbers and one for even numbers.) Each time he throws the dice thereafter, he follows the direction of the arrow in the square he is leaving.

BUYING STOCK: As each player lands on a new square, he immediately moves the quotation board indicator up or down the number of spaces indicated. (At the bottom of each square directions for up or down movements are given.) If the indicator should reach the top or bottom of the board, the direction of counting is reversed, and the remaining spaces are counted off in the opposite direction. After the indicator has been moved, the player may purchase from the bank as many shares as he wishes of the stock named in the square his playing piece rests on, at the new quotation price per share. When a player buys one or more shares of stock, he gets a stock card and the number of shares purchased. (It is sometimes helpful to use paper clips to keep your share scrip under the proper stock heading.) Only one share may be brought on squares where a limit is shown and no shares bought upon landing on a $100 FEE or BROKER FEE square or on a square requiring sale of stock. A player landing on one of these squares must follow the instructions given before the next player may roll the dice, even if he must sell stock out of turn and take the lowest board price. A player may choose not to buy any shares when he lands on a new square. However, it is important to remember that a player may purchase stock only immediately upon landing on a new square and before the dice are passed to the next player. If a player lands on a square where he already owns some of the stock listed, he receives a cash dividend from the bank for each share at the dividend price listed. He may also buy additional shares at the new quotation board price per share. He does not receive a dividend for these new shares on this turn.

SELLING STOCK: Immediately before his turn to throw the dice, a player may sell any of his shares back to the bank at the quotation board price. No shares may be sold between players. If a player must sell after his throw of the dice, he must sell at the very lowest price on the board for that particular stock, no matter what the indicated price might show.

STOCK DIVIDENDS: For each stock there is one entrance to a STOCKHOLDERS' MEETING. A player who owns one share or more of the stock named may detour into the meeting as he moves past the entrance. He may not purchase more stock unless he actually lands on the entrance, in which case he may buy one additional share. If the player does not own any of the stock but lands at an entrance, he may buy one share and go to the meeting. It is usually to his advantage to do so. If he lands on any of the meeting spaces he receives as many shares as indicated for each of the shares he owns of that stock. (For instance, if he owns five shares and lands on a 3 FOR 1 space, he would receive 15 shares.) A player may not buy shares while at a meeting.

GOING BROKE: If a player goes broke or cannot pay a fee, he may "go back to       work," provided her returns all of his remaining stock and money to the bank.

WINNING THE GAME: To win, a player must have $100,000 at his turn to roll the dice. This includes his cash and all of his stock at the current board price. If they wish, players may set a smaller or larger amount to lengthen or shorten the game. Players might also decide that the player with the most money after a specified length of time would be the winner.

Questions? Comments? Concerns? Email Mithun(mithun@turtledrive.com).
